Y25-284 update limber config documentation (#2456)
sanger/limber: docs/robots_file.md

The robots configuration file defines all the bed verifications in Limber.

A bed verification is a check done by the lab staff when loading a liquid handler robot. The idea is to check both that the plates are on the correct beds (plate locations) on the deck of the robot, and if pairing them that those plates have the expected parent and child relationship in the LIMS (that you've not muddled up pairings of plates).
The goal is to reduce human error when loading liquid handler robots, preventing mistakes and plate swaps. This is critical in high throughput pipelines especially, where many plates are being processed simultaneously in repetitive tasks.

There will be a location barcode stuck on or near each bed on the liquid handler deck. The user scans both this bed barcode and the labware barcode, and the system validates that the labware is of the correct purpose and is in the correct deck location. Clicking on 'validate' then checks the labwares are correctly related to one another.

A successful bed verification typically happens in 2 stages; validation, then transfers of samples to the child.

The use of the bed verification is also logged as an event to the MLWH.

> Remember to include any bed verifications in your Integration Suite tests. They are an important part of pipeline development and vital to prevent mistakes in the labs.

Reviewer: This is the first mention of the Integration Suite, is it worth including its usage somewhere else

Author: Probably a good idea to add a Pipeline testing section somewhere, so yes good idea.

Author: added

```code
bravo_robot transition_to: 'started' do
```

# Custom robots
Custom robot configuration gives you full control and flexibility over beds and states. These robots can include any number of beds. Some liquid handler robots process multiple pairs of plates in parallel e.g. A->B x 4. Others process several sequential steps in one method e.g. A->B->C.

## Custom one to one transfer between two labwares
In this simple example the robot does a simple one to one transfer.

Example for a Zephyr liquid handler robot:
```code
custom_robot(
  'zephyr-lib-pcr-purification',
  name: 'Zephyr LB Lib PCR => LB Lib PCR XP',
  verify_robot: false,
  beds: {
    bed(2).barcode => {
      purpose: 'LB Lib PCR',
      states: ['passed'],
      label: 'Bed 2'
    },
    bed(7).barcode => {
      purpose: 'LB Lib PCR-XP',
      states: ['pending'],
      label: 'Bed 7',
      parent: bed(2).barcode,
      target_state: 'passed'
    }
  }
)
```

### Parameters
`name:`
This is the name that will appear on the button in the Limber view

`require_robot: true`
The user will be required to scan an identifying barcode on the liquid handler robot.

`verify_robot: true`

> The user will be required to scan an identifying barcode on the liquid handler robot, and the system will verify that the same robot barcode was scanned as in the previous bed verification. This can be used to chain a sequence of bed verifications and ensure the same plates are used on the same liquid handler robor. Useful when a plate leaves the liquid handler deck for some purpose (e.g. PCR) and then returns for the next step. NB. This can block the user continuing if they entered a spurious string for the first bed verification that they cannot remember for the second. There is currently no way to validate the scanned robot barcode against anything, any string is accepted.

Reviewer 2: robor -> robot

Author: fixed thx

`beds:`
Hash of bed definitions for this bed verification.

`bed:`
Each bed definition is keyed on a bed barcode e.g. bed(2).barcode.

Within each bed:
  `purpose:`
  The purpose key (or keys) that are valid for this bed.
  e.g.
  ```code
  purpose: 'LB Lib PCR'
  ```

  The purpose field can be a list (for use when there are a number of valid options):
  e.g.
  ```code
  purpose: ['LB Lib PCR-XP', 'LTN Lib PCR XP']
  ```

  `states`
  The list of states that are valid for the labware in this bed. Prevents the users transferring from or into plates that are in the wrong state. Usually will contain just one state.
  e.g.
  ```code
  states: ['passed']
  ```

  `child`
  Indicates which bed definition is the child of this bed. Used for relationship validation.
  e.g.
  ```code
  child: bed(4).barcode
  ```
  The can be multiple children as a list (for splits):
  e.g.
  ```code
  'children' => [bed(15).barcode, bed(14).barcode]
  ```

>   `parent`

Reviewer: Does the parent have to refer to one of the other beds in the config above

  Indicates which bed is the parent of this bed. Used for relationship validation.
  e.g.
  ```code
  parent: bed(7).barcode
  ```

  There can be multiple parents as a list (for merges):
  e.g.
  ```code
  parents: [bed(2).barcode, bed(5).barcode, bed(3).barcode, bed(6).barcode],
  ```

  `label`
  The label for the bed as it should be displayed in the bed verification screen GUI.
  e.g.
  ```code
  label: 'Bed 2'
  ```

## An example of multiple pairs of parallel transfers

> Sometimes the liquid handler deck is large enough to accommadate two or more sets of transfers in parallel (aids throughput in the lab).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes the liquid handler deck is large enough to accommodate two or more sets of transfers in parallel (aids throughput in the lab).
```

## A sequential series of transfers within the same bed verification
Sometimes a liquid handler method performs a series of transfers in the same run. So rather than just A->B, it may perform A->B->C.

See {PermissivePresenter} to create child plates while the parent plate is still in a pending state.

Example with 3 steps:
```code
custom_robot(
  'bravo-pf-post-shear-xp-to-pf-lib-xp',
  name: 'Bravo PF Post Shear XP to PF Lib XP',
  beds: {
    car('1,3').barcode => {
      purpose: 'PF Post Shear XP',
      states: ['passed'],
      label: 'Carousel 1,3'
    },
    bed(6).barcode => {
      purpose: 'PF Lib',
      states: ['pending'],
      label: 'Bed 6',
      target_state: 'passed',
      parent: car('1,3').barcode
    },
    car('4,3').barcode => {
      purpose: 'PF Lib XP',
      states: ['pending'],
      label: 'Carousel 4,3',
      target_state: 'passed',
      parent: bed(6).barcode
    }
  }
)
```

Note above how the last two beds expect the plate to be in 'pending' state.

> And that they each have a parent of the previous bed.

Reviewer: Ye this bit: “and that they each have a parent of the previous bed” could be added to the “parents” config explanation above.

  require_robot: true,
  beds: {
    bed(9).barcode => {
      purpose: 'LILYS-96 Stock',
      states: ['passed'],
      label: 'Bed 9',
      target_state: 'passed'
    },
    bed(14).barcode => {
      purpose: 'LBSN-96 Lysate',
      states: ['pending'],
      label: 'Bed 14',
      target_state: 'passed',
      parent: bed(9).barcode
    }
  }
)
```

Note with the above that the same plate purpose is in bed 9 on both bed verifications.
Note that the first bed verification here doesn't do a transfer and doesn't change the state of the plate.
Note also that it is possible to insist that the same robot barcode is scanned for the second bed verification. To do that, in the second bed verification change
```code
require_robot: true,
```
to
```code
verify_robot: true,
```
(The downside of this is if the lab staff entered a string for the robot barcode in the first bed verification that they cannot then remember for the second, they are blocked from continuing. There have been support issues where that has happened. There is no way to verify that the string entered is a valid robot barcode or name, as not all robots are persisted in Sequencescape.)

> ## Tips and Tricks
> > When developing just set the bed barcodes to any numbers if you don't yet have the real numbers (often the lab is still testing the liquid handler steps and doesn't finalise all the locations).
> > Note that you can use state to control when bed verification buttons appear on the Limber view. This helps to avoid confusion for the lab staff, it leads them through the sequence in the correct order. For example, you could have a series of bed verifications that transition a plate through a series of states, e.g. pending to started, then started to processed_1, then processed_1 to processed_2, and finally processed_2 to passed. The buttons for each transition will only appear when the plate is in the valid starting state for the next transition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> - When developing just set the bed barcodes to any numbers if you don't yet have the real numbers (often the lab is still testing the liquid handler steps and doesn't finalise all the locations).
> - Note that you can use state to control when bed verification buttons appear on the Limber view. This helps to avoid confusion for the lab staff, it leads them through the sequence in the correct order. For example, you could have a series of bed verifications that transition a plate through a series of states, e.g. pending to started, then started to processed_1, then processed_1 to processed_2, and finally processed_2 to passed. The buttons for each transition will only appear when the plate is in the valid starting state for the next transition.
```
